---
title: DBS
author: jyt555
date: 2024-02-04
category: pages/notebook
layout: post
mermaid: true
---

### grading policy

50 final exam + 30 lab and project + 20 hw and class test

final exam: close book test, but allow taking one handwritten A4 page note

## Introduction

### what should we learn?

* Modeling and design of databases
* Programming: use database - queries and update of data
* DBMS( Database Management system ) implementation - how does DBMS work, and how to design a DBMS

### what’s a database

<details>
    <summary>Database Definition</summary>
    A collection of <b>interrelated data</b>, relevant to an enterprise.<br/>
    A large collection of <b>integrated and persistent</b> data.<br/>
    A collection of information that exists over a long period of time, often many years.
</details>

<details>
	<summary>Database Management System (DBMS)</summary>
    (Database) + A set of programs used to access, update and manage the data in database.
</details>

<details>
    <summary>Major properties of DBMS</summary>
    * <b>Efficiency</b> and <b>scalability</b> (可扩展性) in data access;<br/>
    * <b>Reduced</b> application development time;<br/>
    * Data <b>independence</b> (physical data independence / logical data independence);<br/>
    * Data <b>integrity</b> (完整性) and security;<br/>
    * <b>Concurrent access</b> and <b>robustness</b> (recovery).
</details>
### DBMS

- a historical perspective
- database systems VS file processing systems
- marketplace

### Levels of Data Abstraction

How to use DB - Different usage needs different level of **abstraction.** 
(e.g., student score management system)

* Physical level: describes how a record is stored.
* Logical level: describes data stored in database, and the relationships among the data on upper level.
* View level: application programs hide details of data types. Views can also hide information.

Schemas (模式) and Instances (实例)

。

### Data Models

<details>
    <summary>Data model - A collection of conceptual tools for describing</summary>
    data structure, data relationships, data semantics (语义), data constraints
</details>

<details>
    <summary>Different data models</summary>
    Entity-Relationship model, Relational model, object-oriented model. semi-structured data model(XML)…
</details>

<details>
    <summary>Steps of Database Design</summary>
    Requirement analysis<br/>
    Conceptual database design<br/>
    Logical database design<br/>
    Schema refinement<br/>
    Physical database design<br/>
    Create and initialize the database.Security design
</details>
### Database Language

#### Data Definition Language (DDL,数据定义语言)

* Specifies a **database scheme** as a set of definitions of **relational schema**.
* Also specifies **storage structure, access methods and consistency constraints.**
* DDL statements are compiled, resulting in a set of tables stored in a special file: **data dictionary** (数据字典), which contains metadata (元数据).

#### Data Manipulation Language (DML,数据操纵语言)

DML (alse known as query language):

**Retrieve**(检索) data from the database, **Insert / delete / update** data in the database 

Two classes of languages: Procedural and **Non**procedural (user specifies what data is
required **without** specifying how to get those data e.g. SQL, Prolog)

#### Data Control Language (DCL,数据控制语言)

#### Structured Query Language (SQL,结构化查询语言)

SQL = DDL + DML + DCL, it’s the most widely used query language.

### Database Users

### Database Administrator (DBA)

### Transaction Management (事务管理)

**Transaction requirement: ACID**
atomicity ( 原子性), consistence (一致性), isolation (隔离性), durability ( 持久性)

### Database management system structure